Passkeys coverage (#35943)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/security/authentication/passkeys/index.md

### Step 3: Server generates options

When `MakePasskeyCreationOptionsAsync` executes, it uses the app's `IdentityPasskeyOptions` configuration to determine the specific parameters for credential creation. These options control various aspects of the passkey creation process.

You can customize these options during application startup. For example:

```csharp
builder.Services.Configure<IdentityPasskeyOptions>(options =>
{
    options.ServerDomain = "contoso.com";
    options.AuthenticatorTimeout = TimeSpan.FromMinutes(3);
    options.UserVerificationRequirement = "required";
    options.ResidentKeyRequirement = "preferred";
});
```

> The `UserVerificationRequirement` option determines whether the authenticator must verify the user's identity (through biometric or PIN methods), while `ResidentKeyRequirement` indicates whether the credential should be discoverable, allowing authentication without first providing a username. For more information during the .NET 10 preview release period, see the [`IdentityPasskeyOptions` reference source (`dotnet/aspnetcore` GitHub repository)](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/blob/main/src/Identity/Core/src/IdentityPasskeyOptions.cs).

Author: That's a bit stale (May 31, 2025), but a testing recommendation of some sort seems like the right approach. Mackinnon will advise.

### Attestation (registration)

*Attestation* is the process of creating and registering a new passkey. During attestation, the server generates a unique challenge that the authenticator must include in the returned credential. The authenticator creates a new key pair and returns the public key along with attestation data proving the key's origin. The server then verifies this attestation and stores the public key for future authentication attempts.

### Assertion (authentication)

*Assertion* is the process of authenticating with an existing passkey. The server generates a unique challenge, which the authenticator signs using the private key. The authenticator returns this signed assertion to the server, which verifies the signature using the previously stored public key. If the signature is valid, the user is authenticated.

## Prerequisites

<!-- UPDATE 10.0 - Remove preview link in favor of the download link ...

* [.NET SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download) (.NET 10 or later)

-->

* [.NET 10 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet/10.0)
* A modern web browser that supports WebAuthn.

> * A device with a platform authenticator (such as Windows Hello, Touch ID, or Face ID) or a security key.

Author: I defer to @MackinnonBuck on how to address this one.

> * A device with a platform authenticator (such as Windows Hello, Touch ID, or Face ID) or a security key.

Reviewer: They're not technically authenticators, but they're biometric modalities that unlock the "platform authenticator". As far as I'm aware, Apple doesn't have a product name for their platform authenticator. Non-technical documentation only refers to Touch ID and Face ID, and technical documentation just refers to the authenticator as ["the authenticator"](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/authenticationservices/supporting-passkeys#overview).

We could reword this to be something like:

> A device with a platform authenticator (such as Windows Hello on Windows, or Apple’s Face ID or Touch ID, which are biometric methods for unlocking the iOS platform authenticator) or a security key.

Or, if we want to dodge the terminology problem altogether:

> A device with a built-in authentication method (such as Windows Hello, Touch ID, or Face ID) or a security key.

> * A device with a platform authenticator (such as Windows Hello, Touch ID, or Face ID) or a security key.

Reviewer 2: I think the authenticator in Apple devices is part of the ["secure enclave"](https://support.apple.com/guide/security/secure-enclave-sec59b0b31ff/web), though it is not stated explicitly on that page. How about:
 ```suggestion
* A device with a platform authenticator (such as Windows Hello or Apple secure enclave) or a security key.
```

**Mitigation**: Either explicitly configure `ServerDomain` in `IdentityPasskeyOptions` or ensure that the hosting environment (Kestrel, IIS, reverse proxy) validates host headers. For configuration details, see your hosting platform's documentation.

### Subdomain security

ASP.NET Core's passkeys implementation handles subdomain security through the `ServerDomain` configuration option. When `ServerDomain` isn't explicitly specified, the implementation uses the host header to determine the domain. This means that ***the page on which the passkey was registered controls the domain*** for that credential.

For example:

* If a passkey is registered on `app.contoso.com`, it also works on `*.app.contoso.com`.
* If registered on `contoso.com`, it also works on `*.contoso.com`.
* The browser enforces that passkeys can only be used on the domain (and subdomains) where they were registered.

> **Requirement**: Apps requiring strict domain control should explicitly set `ServerDomain` rather than relying on the host header. Don't serve untrusted content on any subdomain within the `ServerDomain` scope. If you can't guarantee this, implement custom origin validation to restrict passkey usage to specific origins.

Author: Again, @MackinnonBuck to comment ... does this just mean an approach like Kestrel host filtering or IIS request filtering?

### Account recovery

Account recovery is primarily a concern for apps that allow passkeys as the only authentication mechanism. The default Blazor Web App project template already requires users to set up a backup authentication method (password or external provider) when creating an account, so account recovery is handled through these existing mechanisms.

**Recommendations**:

For applications implementing passkey-only authentication, consider:

* Recovery codes generated during account creation.
* Email-based recovery flows.
* Mandatory registration of multiple passkeys.
* Monitoring the `IsBackedUp` flag on `UserPasskeyInfo` to prompt users to add additional credentials.

### Administrative controls

When an authenticator model is discovered to have security vulnerabilities, you may need to revoke affected credentials. The implementation stores the complete attestation object with each credential, including the Authenticator Attestation GUID (AAGUID), which is a 128-bit identifier indicating the key type.

> **Implementation**: Extract AAGUIDs from stored attestation objects, compare against known-compromised models, and revoke affected credentials. AAGUID reliability depends on whether your app validates attestation statements.

Author: I'll need Mackinnon's favorite. A search quickly turns up ...

https://fidoalliance.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/06/EDWG_Attestation-White-Paper_2024-1.pdf

> **Implementation**: Extract AAGUIDs from stored attestation objects, compare against known-compromised models, and revoke affected credentials. AAGUID reliability depends on whether your app validates attestation statements.

Reviewer: There's already an example [here](https://github.com/dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs/blob/8e778870219ae4596d2e66255b3737a86a109b93/aspnetcore/security/authentication/passkeys/index.md?plain=1#L184) that shows how to hook in custom attestation statement validation logic, but we could go further by:
* Linking to libraries that implement attestation statement validation (such as [fido2-net-lib](https://github.com/passwordless-lib/fido2-net-lib))
* Producing a sample that shows how a library such as `fido2-net-lib` can be used to add attestation statement validation to an app

### Resource limits

> To prevent database exhaustion attacks, apps should enforce limits on passkey registration, such as:

Author: Sounds like 👂 custom dev code to 🦖 ... Mackinnon?

> To prevent database exhaustion attacks, apps should enforce limits on passkey registration, such as:

Reviewer: There aren't configuration options for these. They're implemented on the application level. The template does this by default in [Passkeys.razor](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/blob/56ec592ed32fb4538e9fa99393d752bd2a485b4a/src/ProjectTemplates/Web.ProjectTemplates/content/BlazorWeb-CSharp/BlazorWebCSharp.1/Components/Account/Pages/Manage/Passkeys.razor#L63) and [RenamePasskey.razor](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/blob/56ec592ed32fb4538e9fa99393d752bd2a485b4a/src/ProjectTemplates/Web.ProjectTemplates/content/BlazorWeb-CSharp/BlazorWebCSharp.1/Components/Account/Pages/Manage/RenamePasskey.razor#L91-L93).

You can customize these options during application startup. For example:

```csharp
builder.Services.Configure<IdentityPasskeyOptions>(options =>
{
    options.ServerDomain = "contoso.com";
    options.AuthenticatorTimeout = TimeSpan.FromMinutes(3);
    options.UserVerificationRequirement = "required";
    options.ResidentKeyRequirement = "preferred";
});
```

The `UserVerificationRequirement` option determines whether the authenticator must verify the user's identity (through biometric or PIN methods), while `ResidentKeyRequirement` indicates whether the credential should be discoverable, allowing authentication without first providing a username. For more information during the .NET 10 preview release period, see the [`IdentityPasskeyOptions` reference source (`dotnet/aspnetcore` GitHub repository)](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/blob/main/src/Identity/Core/src/IdentityPasskeyOptions.cs).

<!-- UPDATE 10.0 - Be sure to swap the last line out for the API doc cross-link 

For more information, see <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Identity.IdentityPasskeyOptions%2A>.

> -->

Author: We can do it now as long as the links work in preview ... which they do! Sometimes, they don't. When they fail during preview, I circle back to activate them. I'll activate this one now.
